Olti Asllanaj
Spring 2017
Chapter 13 - Project 1

Project 1: Book rep Customer relations Management 
DifficuLty LEvEL: Intermediate

Overview

Demonstrate your ability to work with PHP by converting the login page we have been developing over the last few chapters into a functioning authentication system that remembers a valid login using sessions and allows users to log out.
Instructions

1. You may begin by using your login page started in Chapter 8. You may recall that PHP did some simple field validation 
in PHP.

2. Create a new SQL table to store user credentials. Store at least one auto-generated UserID, as well as a username 
and password combination they will use to log in (we will return to this in later projects).

3. Modify the PHP script to handle the submitted form by validating the passed credentials against the database users. 
   Upon a successful login, display a welcome message; otherwise, display the login page with an error message. 
   Note: Remember to sanitize your user inputs.

4. Add the session_start() to your existing PHP script to add session functionality. Note: If you are using multiple files,
   be sure to include session_start() in each one that has to make use of the session variables.

5. When the user login is successful, set a new $_SESSION['UserID'] variable to hold a value associated with the session. 
   For the sake of simplicity, store the user’s unique UserID from our database schema.

6. Modify the PHP code that generates the login page. Have it first check the $_SESSION variable to see if a user ID has 
   been set. If the session is not set, it displays a login page like before; otherwise, it should output a Welcome Page, 
   with a link to log out as illustrated in Figure 13.15.

7. Finally, create a page named logout.php, which calls the session_start() function, and then resets all the $_SESSION 
   variables, calls session_destroy(), and then redirects back to the page it was clicked from (using the $_SERVER['REFERER'] 
   value).

Test

1. Create one user in the database for testing purposes.

2. Test the page by logging in with correct credentials. You should see the
   Welcome screen and the Logout link.

3. Try navigating away from the page and coming back to the login page. You
   should see the Welcome message (i.e., the session is being saved between visits).

4. Verify that clicking logout results in the session ending and starting back at
   the login page.
